MSc Project - Geospatial Database Meeting
Costa, STFC Daresbury
01/06/2017

Key Points:

-> The main goal of the project is to create the basis for an application that will be used
   to help visually impaired users to explore new areas with confidence and so improve quality
   of life. The trial area used for development will be the Liverpool University campus, both
   outdoors and parts of the indoor environment. Slightly more than this, a broader aim is to
   create a standard for data collection and classification for this purpose.

-> A mini literature review needs to be carried out as the state of the art has most likely
   changed since Neil's work with the RNC. Mentioned were Google and Apple's advancement in
   the domain of accessibility.

-> A key idea for the database is that is should not be overpopulated with objects of interest;
   an important aspect of any application designed to help the visually impaired is combatting
   so called "information overload", as highlighted by Neil's work with the RNC.

-> It could interface with Streetview and/or openstreetmap.org depending on the flexibility
   of available APIs. Since the final product will be mobile, the C++ application would aim
   to populate a mobile friendly database. Google Streetview has the ability to upload 360
   degree photospheres - these could be used as the main input data to a fast machine learning
   algorithm to classify objects of interest.

-> Put forward the idea to Jason's upcoming employer, Arup, if a KTP would be something they
   would be interested in

Key ideas from the journey back to Liverpool:

-> It may be worth collecting data with depth information instead of trying to apply a given
   machine learning algorithm to 360 degree photoshere 2D images. It is unlikely there will
   be many objects of interest above or directly below the user, so perhaps an approach using
   a Google Tango powered device may be effective. Tango devices can measure distances to
   within a few centimetres so would be useful for measuring the height of steps/kerbsides
   (a particular area of interest that came up in the meeting)

Next Tasks:

-> Conduct a brief literature review on the current state of the art of accessibility options
   in the domain of indoor/outdoor mapping. (Google's latest I/O conference introduced VPS -
   a particular area of interest)

-> Set up a Slack team (complete)

-> Check if Liverpool University have a license to release on the Apple App Store



