MSc Project - Geospatial Database Meeting
Neil, Jason, Vitaliy, Sandra
Ashton Building, Office 221 
21/07/2017

Key Points:

-> See feedback from Neil - he has provided annotated word documents with his thoughts
   on each of the project specifications.

-> It would be an idea to focus on some specific routes to cut down the time needed for
   mapping. Sandra and I have discussed a route from the Subway on Myrtle street to
   the Sydney Jones library. It would also be very useful to get feedback from a BoVI
   student (past or present) to identify particularly tricky routes.

-> Update on Sandra's subsystems: OSRM was putting up too much of a fight so she is now
   working with the Graphhopper web API and working with the GPX files it produces. This
   is a far simpler approach and should speed up development markedly. The decision has
   also been made to use Python to process the route data. Again, this will speed up
   development compared to a C++ implementation.

-> Graphhopper also returns the GPS points of the centroids of buildings, not of their
   outer vertices/edges. This will have to be thought about, possibly by using the
   GPS positions of doorways from the SiloamSee/Learn systems.

-> We can get some help from Ed Pyzer Knapp at IBM for use of the Panther/Paragon machines
   which it is confirmed we can use for a NN implementation of 3D model classifcation or
   indeed just a NN implementation of RGB-D classifcation (since so much effort is put in here)
   
   See Jason's literature review. Advice and guidance to do with all things machine learning
   could be sourced from some of Neil's colleagues including Roger Downing.

-> An Agile development process will adopted from now on. Small sprints with regular updates
   on Slack which can be used to shift development goals to keep only the most crucial
   elements of the design.

Next Tasks:

-> See if we can find a UoL BoVI student, past or present to identify the most useful routes
   to map.

-> As ever, carry on with dev!

-> Remember the Agile process!

Next Meeting:

-> 09:30 27/07/2017 at Waterside, STFC
