MSc Project - Geospatial Database Meeting
Room 221 Ashton: Vitaliy, Jason
Somewhere in the land of Mexico: Sandra (via Skype)
Away at conference: Neil
21/06/2017

Key Points:

-> Jason and Sandra covered the high level design elements of Tango data collection (SiloamEyes),
   data organisation (SiloamStore), route mapping (SiloamPaths) and RGB-D machine learning
   (SiloamLearn). Not covered was the function of new obstacle detection (SiloamShift). It was
   decided that this would be a feature that would be included if time permits, especially after
   Vitaliy's mantra of "Focus on something basic".

-> Highlighted in Sandra's analysis was the two methods of path finding that OSM uses, Mapzen and
   Graphhopper. These two technologies seem to be implemented in Java. Integration will need to be
   planned. Since the project is leaning towards a final (probably future) application that would
   allow VI users to explore a given area, useful waypoints like e.g. coffee shops, trees should
   all be included a given bounding box of exploration. Also mentioned was mixing in live weather
   data with the maps. Again, this is probably a stretch goal.

-> The high level coggle mindmap as well as the draw.io architectural diagrams should be included
   in the design specification.

-> For the 3D object classification, it could be the case that with certain methods a lot of
s   storage space might be required to house certain 3D models from a variety of different viewing
   angles. For the upcoming specification and proposed design, the 3D object classification section
   will probably take the form of a literature review and then a conclusion section where one method
   will be chosen over the others. Sandra and Jason could each take a selection of different papers
   and evaluate them in their specifications. From the two winning methods from each spec, a winner
   could be chosen by both parties.

Tasks Carried Over From Previous Meeting:

-> Photospheres take ~24 hours to be uploaded and made available to any Street View user and
   therefore available to the Street View web API. However, after some consideration, since Tango
   enabled devices are being used for the 3D modelling of features, Streetview data will not be
   necessary to populate the database. However, since the photospheres are to be captured anyway,
   if there are any problems with the data collections using a Tango device, the uploaded
   photospheres could still be used for a photogrammetry-type method of feature extraction using
   OpenSURF or something similar, by way of a "plan B". The uploaded photospheres will also help
   with the Street View in general, not an unhappy consequence. 

-> High level project plan in the form of a public coggle mindmap and several diagrams composed
   on draw.io (both of which are included in the github - diagrams in XML for and mindmap in .mm
   format for the coggle) was completed.

-> On review of some database technologies it seems that there is a version of CouchDB called
   GeoCouch which may offer the features we need and that stores documents in JSON format. Further
   research is being carried out.

Next Tasks:

-> Come up with an estimate of storage space needed for the 3D model classification.

-> First draft of specification and design to be handed in by the weekend. Vitaliy will be available
   via email next week whilst at a conference, but not immediately.

-> Neil, are you free at any point next week for a meeting at the Hartree centre?

-> To that end, second draft of the spec and design to be handed in before the meeting with Neil.

-> Provisional slides should also be handed in at the same time as the second draft. Vitaliy unveiled
   the 8x8 rule: 8 lines x 8 words per slide. And try to include pictures!

-> Provisional presentation date (for both presentations): 06/07/2017
