MSc Project - Geospatial Database Meeting
Room 221 Ashton: Vitaliy, Jason
Somewhere in the land of Mexico: Sandra (via Skype)
STFC: Neil (via Skype)
16/06/2017

Key Points:

-> Decision was made to focus on outdoor mapping of the Liverpool campus for the project:
   indoor mapping would be difficult to implement because of possible departmental access
   issues and also the issue of multi-floor navigation. Inside a bulding a VI user would
   need to have access to a Tango device to verify which level they are on in areas without
   widespread use of emitter/sensor infrastructure as discussed in a few papers covered in the
   first literature review. 

-> All parties seemed to be interested in a VPS-like system. Therefore a Tango device or
   devices will need to be acquired for the project. Neil has links with Lenovo who currently
   manufacture the only available Tango enabled device, the Lenovo Phab 2 Pro. Devices may
   be available for loan. The depth information that can be captured by the IR emitter/receiver would
   be useful for macro level feature identification with an as-yet unspecified machine learning
   algorithm(s).

-> A preference for OSM was also discussed to fit in with the open source/open availability ethos.

-> A possibly strategy was identified whereby geocoded photospheres could be uploaded to the Street View
   servers, downloaded back from Google via the Street View API and then linked to map data from OSM.

-> For obstacles that appear while a VI user is following a route a photo could be taken by holding the user's
   smartphone to their chest in a similar fashion to the now defunct app "Beme". This 2D image could then be
   analysed to update the database so that other VI users would know what to expect on the path ahead.

Tasks Carried Over From Previous Meeting:

-> Liverpool University must have an iOS developer license otherwise the widely used timetable app
   wouldn't exist.

-> Brief literature review complete.

Next Tasks:

-> Investigate the time taken between an photosphere upload to Street View and approval by
   Google. Google may pass each sphere through some sort of machine learning algorithm to
   identify e.g. faces and numberplates and blur them out to anonymise them (6 spheres uploaded to date,
   awaiting results).

-> Device a high level project plan. To that end, investigate the OSM API to see what can be
   pulled from the OSM database and in what form and also the Street View API, both of which are
   free to use. Perhaps conduct a survey of databases that could be used in a client/server
   architecture for the final product. Something with JSON would be good. After this is completed
   work out the workload between Sandra and Jason.
