MSc Project - Geospatial Database Meeting
Vitaliy, Jason and Sandra - Ashton Building Room 221
Neil, via Skype
03/08/2017

Key Points:

-> Progress from Sandra: functionality of SiloamRoute is nearly there, code just
   needs refactoring. The current Python program takes the GPS starting point of the
   proposed route [Subway on Myrtle Street to the Harold Cohen Library - which roughly
   follows the golden truth route], the end GPS point and prints addresses and post
   codes of each.

   Uses a 40m (20m either side of the current GPS point) bounding box and scans the
   route for waypoints. The bounding box is this size to capture the centroids of buildings.

   There are some issues with some of the waypoints - even though there might be e.g. a coffee
   shop shown on the map in some cases the necessary tags have not been included in OSM.
   This is because of the inherent open source nature of data editing.

-> Progress from Jason: Set up two types of camera rig in Blender to generate RGB-D
   images to be used for training/testing the SVM. The first camera rig consists of 8
   cameras with a 90 degree fov facing forward and 8 cameras facing towards the floor to
   capture the heading widget. This rig is used to generate RGB-D data from the maps
   from the SiloamSee app. The second camera rig consists of 120 cameras arranged in a
   fixed radius circle but offset at different heights to generate RGB-D data from models
   downloaded from the Trimble 3D warehouse.

-> There will be another Phab 2 Pro available for loan from the morning of Tuesday 8th to
   Friday 11th to double the mapping effort, since mapping runs areF taking longer
   than expected.


Next tasks:

-> The machine learning effort will be split from here on out - Sandra will focus on a scikit
   learn implementation of a DCNN (or maybe Marvin?) in Python and Jason will focus on the
   RBF SVM in C++. But each of us will help the other out. So in a sense the machine learning
   effort will be separate but also apart. Very Schrodinger.

-> Small details for Sandy - needs the interface to the Couchbase Server to be completed or
   at least a dummy database created to test the final functionality of SiloamRoute

-> Jason: get at least ten models per each RGB-D category and carry on working on the camera
   rigs and then the SVM

Next meeting:

-> Provisionally Friday 11th, 15:30

